what's up guys Brennan huffard here
welcome to two minute Tuesday let's get
into it and somehow here my garage
finished a workout a little bit ago with
this really good light my garage faces
the east so we got this really good
light coming in and I wanted to use it
the SEO beard is in full effect not
shaving this guy until we reach day 100
of 100 days of SEO today is today 22
which I'm pretty stoked about today
we're gonna actually gonna go inside
we're gonna hop into my laptop I'm gonna
explain why hosting matters for SEO
let's do it alright what's up we are in
my computer like I said my name is
Brendan Hufford I'm the founder of SEO
for the rest of us and 100 days of SEO
I'm also the SEO director at click
studios I'd like to thank flywheel for
sponsoring this video as a part of the
100 days of SEO project today we're
gonna be talking about in 2 minutes or
less why hosting matters for SEO but to
understand why hosting matters for SEO
we first have to understand how the
internet works and to explain that I'd
like to kick it over to a former senator
from Alaska Ted Stevens so why does this
series of tubes matter Fred just kidding
just kidding the Internet is not a
series of tubes in fact we're gonna talk
about three reasons why hosting matters
for SEO speed up time and security but
first let's revisit that analogy today
I'd like you to join me as Brendan
Hufford that's me presents a likely
inaccurate and oversimplified
explanation of how the internet works
so first the Internet is not a cloud it
is not in the cloud it is not
the cloud the Internet is mostly a
straight line and along this straight
line are servers which are computers
that host things like websites in when
you want to access a website on your
laptop or your phone or anything else
that device connects to the Internet
which then connects to a server to bring
that website back to your computer or if
you use hosting like flywheel you have
access to content delivery networks
which put the information physically
closer to the receiving computer making
it faster and that has been and
oversimplified and likely inaccurate
explanation of how the internet works so
again you're asking why does hosting
matter for SEO well the first one of
these things is speed
[Music]
speed is absolutely a ranking factor
additionally things that will help with
speed are things like web caching and a
content delivery network both of which
can be taken care of by a good hosting
company so if you want to rank better in
search having a faster website helps
that so for example it's always
incredibly important to me that my
personal websites are as fast as
possible because I know that that's a
ranking factor it's a ranking factor
because that's what makes the internet
better for people
next is uptime when I used to host with
Hostgator and Bluehost and all of those
things my website was down all the time
it was extremely unreliable you can use
simple tools like up trends to see not
only whether your website is up but also
how fast it takes to load from different
parts of the world and wouldn't you
guess parts of the world that are
farther away from where I am in Chicago
here in the United States take a little
bit longer to load tows and finally as
security I know that when I go to a
website and I see that it's unsecure
they have the broken padlock or you know
for whatever reason it just screams
amateur to me and I'm also less likely
as a consumer to put in my credit card I
think both as a trust factor and again a
factor of what makes the internet better
for humans having an SSL certificate
having that green padlock or that green
secure on your website is extremely
important and it also gives me an excuse
to use this hilarious image of Josh
who's a front-end engineer at flywheel
so again if you really care about SEO
for your website you really want to
optimize the speed the uptime in the
security and hosting can help take care
of all of that
speaking of flywheel you can check out
fly out 100 days of seo.com slash
flywheel and if you want access to all
of these slides or any of the other
bonuses we have as part of a hundred
days of SEO including our pillar content
masterclass which teaches you how to
create content that will rank in Google
go to 100 days of seo.com slash join
I've been Brendan Huffer don't forget to
work hard be nice people and don't get
too lost trying to create something that
matters
the Internet is not something that you
just dump something on it's not a big
truck it's a series of tubes
[Music]